So it's time to talk about the web.
And for the web, as we mentioned before,
we need a server, okay?
So php is not a server.
Php shows this.
We run a script and then we get an output,
that's a php script.
There is an exception to that is
that php contains a server for
development purposes only.
If you use php,
if you say in the terminal php-S,
the capital is important
because it's not working,
S, this from Serve, and
then an IP address or a host,
such as localhost: and a port number,
any valid port number,
will work, 4000, whatever, okay?
It will create a server.
It's a PHP development server.
It's not for production.
In production, you should use Apache or
other server, okay?
So this is for us, for
start playing with PHP without actually
setting up another server and
all that stuff.
Now we can open the browser at
localhost:4000 and see what happens.
If I do that, you can control click or
command click from the terminal,
this is what we found.
Not found, by the way,
this is a PHP color.
That blue or purple,
something like that one.
So that's be a PHP server, okay?
So it means that that's
a PHP server responding that
we don't have a default
file in our project.
That means because it's
expecting an index.php.
So if I create a new file, index.php, and
in HTML, let's start with HTML first.
I'm going to create index.html.
I'm not sure if you have used this,
but you can use Emmet in VS Code.
I'm not sure if you know what Emmet is,
but you use exclamation mark tab and
it writes for
you the basic HTML template quickly.
Again, in case you haven't done
that before, exclamation mark tab.
For that to work,
you need to be in an HTML so
you should already save the file, okay?
So I can just say ruphb something like
that just to add something on the HTML.
If I refresh now I'm seeing my HTML, okay?
So this server is also serving
static files as well, okay?
Make sense?
So now I'm going to change
the extension of this file.
Instead of HTML, I will change
the extension to PHP, index.php, okay?
So if I keep it like this and refresh,
I'm still seeing the same thing.
So that means that PHP by default,
it's sending HTML.
By default, it's sending HTML.
What's the difference between
bin.html and.php that now
in the middle of my HTML,
I can open a PHP tag.
And I can do echo.
For example, let's say, will this work?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: So if I write some
PHP code now that echo will not go to
the console,
to the terminal in my operating system,
it will go to the client.
Who is the client?
The browser.
And what we are doing here is what
is known as server-side rendering.
So if I look at my page source,
I don't see PHP code in the browser.
I just see the output that
the final generated code,
this is still server-side generated code,
okay?
There is no client-side,
everything is server-side.
Make sense?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: So in the modern
web development world, this is similar to
some template engines that you
have with Express.js or Django.
We have templating,
the PHP is templating by default.
So by default, the servers in
PHP are always sending HTML.
We will see later how to change that.
So now we are on the web.
So now we can start playing with the web,
okay?
That was our first idea.
And okay, so something that I wanna
show you is that if I inspect this,
and I go to the network tab,
>> Maximiliano Firtman: We
can see this is actually an HTTP request,
a normal HTTP request,
trying to see if I can,
maybe not,
I'm trying to make this part bigger,
but yeah, so it has a lot of headers.
So PHP is not just sending this,
it's sending headers as well.
Lot of information,
receiving and sending headers.
And again something similar
I mentioned before.
So let's say that I'm going to change
this right, so this is not my final code.
If I have a new file and
then say about PHP, and
this about PHP will be another
HTML that will contain
an about section that will
be playing something.
So actually, how can I get to that file?
Probably you already guessed that we
need to go to the URL, about.php.
And I'm getting that file.
So PHP works per request.
Each file respond to each URL,
that's how that works.
So we have one file, one request.
Maybe you're thinking, well, but
I don't like that, I want a router, blah,
blah, blah.
That's all PHP's responsibility,
to be honest.
It's a server responsibility, and
sometimes you can mix
a server with a framework.
I mean, Laravel, CodeIgniter, they might
be doing things differently on top of PHP,
but PHP by itself,
it's one URL, one script.
That's all.
So I know that these days,
reading a .php sounds like weird, right?
In a URL.
Means are still there.
I mean, so, that's why, probably that
was 2006 or something like that.
The new the new pattern up here,
known as friendly URLs,
to remove the .PHP from the URL.
But that's not a PHP problem,
that's a server problem.
So you need to go and set up your server.
So for example, when a request is coming,
it will add the .php or
it will forward internally
that to a different file or
things like that, the file in there.
From a PHP point of view,
it should be a .php file.
So you can map that in your web
server to a different URL later.
But by default,
it's gonna be the name of your PHP file.